# Scraper and parser

## Overview

This project is designed to scrape quotes and author information from the website [https://quotes.toscrape.com/](https://quotes.toscrape.com/). It utilizes Scrapy, a powerful Python web crawling framework, to extract and organize the data.

## Features

* Extracts quotes, tags, and author names from the website.
* Follows links to author pages to extract additional author details.
* Cleans and processes the extracted data.
* Stores the collected quotes and author information in separate JSON files.
* Includes error handling to ensure data integrity.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

* Python 3.11 or newer
* Poetry (package manager)

### Steps

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/OleksiyM/09-web-hw-2.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd 09-web-hw-2
   ```

3. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   poetry install --no-root
   ```

## Usage

1. Activate the virtual environment (if using Poetry):

   ```bash
   poetry shell
   ```

2. Run the crawler:

   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

3. The scraped data will be stored in `quotes.json` and `authors.json`.

## Project Structure

* `pyproject.toml`: Poetry configuration file.
* `settings.py`: Contains Scrapy project settings.
* `main.py`: The main script that runs the crawler.
  * `QuoteItem`: Defines the structure of a quote item.
  * `AuthorItem`: Defines the structure of an author item.
  * `DataPipeline`: Processes and stores the scraped data.
  * `QuotesSpider`: The Scrapy spider that extracts quotes and author links.
* `quotes.json`: The output file containing scraped quotes.
* `authors.json`: The output file containing scraped author information.

## Technologies Used

* Python
* Scrapy
* Poetry

## Integration with MongoDB and CLI App

The JSON files generated by this project can be seamlessly integrated with MongoDB and a CLI app for enhanced functionality:

1. **Data Loading:** The `seeds.py` script, available in the [https://github.com/OleksiyM/08-Web-HW-1](https://github.com/OleksiyM/08-Web-HW-1) repository, can be used to upload the `quotes.json` and `authors.json` files into a MongoDB database, enabling efficient storage and querying of the scraped data.

2. **Search Capabilities:** The `app.py` script, also part of the [https://github.com/OleksiyM/08-Web-HW-1](https://github.com/OleksiyM/08-Web-HW-1) repository, provides a command-line interface (CLI) for interacting with the data in MongoDB. Users can leverage this app to perform various searches, such as:

   - Finding quotes by author, tags, or keywords
   - Discovering information about specific authors
   - Exploring quotes based on various criteria

This integration expands the project's utility, enabling users to effectively store, manage, and search the scraped data through a user-friendly CLI.
